Add Okta and Azure AD set up docs (#342)
astronomer/docs: cloud/configure-idp.md

---
sidebar_label: "Set Up an Identity Provider for Astronomer Cloud"
title: "Set Up an Identity Provider"
id: configure-idp
description: Configure federated authentication from a variety of third party identity providers on Astronomer Cloud.
---

## Overview

This guide provides setup steps for integrating various third party identity providers (IDP) with Astronomer Cloud.

> After integrating your identity provider with Astronomer Cloud, a user in your organization will be automatically logged in to Astronomer Cloud if they're already logged in via your IDP. You can also add existing IDP accounts as new Astronomer users through your IDP application.

Reviewer: @chomipi88 Is this correct? If so, do we need to edit our "Add User" documentation to mention this?

Author: @jwitz I don't quite understand what this is saying.
What it expected, is post configuration of the IdP, the customers' users will be able to log into Astronomer Cloud (via Cloud UI) as long as they have a valid user account on their IdP.

Reviewer: So what you're saying is that by using an IDP, you no longer have to do [Step 1](https://docs.astronomer.io/cloud/add-user#step-1-invite-the-user-to-astronomer) here. The email is automatically associated with the organization, so a Workspace admin could add a user to a Workspace via email without them needing to properly register with Astronomer.

Reviewer: @chomipi88 I assume there's still some control in the IDP of which users belong to which apps. So is there a prerequisite of needing to add users to the Astronomer app via the IDP before they can authenticate to Astronomer

Author: @jwitz Definitely a different experience then the linked Step 1. The user will be logged into their Organization. From there they will be able to create a workspace (shipping soon) or be added to an existing one.

## Configure Okta as Your IDP

This section provides setup steps for setting up Okta as your IDP on Astronomer Cloud. After completing this setup, your organization's users can use Okta to log in to Astronomer.

### Prerequisites

To integrate Okta as your IDP for Astronomer Cloud, you must have an [Okta account](https://www.okta.com/)

### Step 1: Work with Astronomer to configure SAML

> Reach out to [Astronomer Support](support.astronomer.io) with a request to integrate Okta as an IDP on Astronomer. From here, an Astronomer Representative will provide you with a connection name. Save this connection name for use in Step 2.

Reviewer: @chomipi88 Is this the only info that Astronomer provides at this stage? Assumed it from the configurations below

Author: @jwitz technically we will provide the full Single Sign On URL and Audience URI which will include their connection name

---
sidebar_label: "Set Up an Identity Provider for Astronomer Cloud"
title: "Set Up an Identity Provider"
id: configure-idp
description: Configure federated authentication from a variety of third party identity providers on Astronomer Cloud.
---

## Overview

> This guide provides setup steps for integrating various third party identity providers (IDP) with Astronomer Cloud.
> 
> After integrating your identity provider with Astronomer Cloud, a user in your organization will be automatically logged in to Astronomer Cloud if they're already logged in via your IDP. By adding new Astronomer users through your IDP's own user management system, Workspace admins can automatically add new users to their Workspace without those users needing to individually sign up for Astronomer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Identity Providers (IdPs) are services that manage user accounts. As organizations grow, it's common for teams to integrate internal tooling with a third-party IdP. This allows administrators to monitor application access, user permissions, and security policies from a single place. It also makes it easy for individual users to access the tools they need.

Astronomer Cloud supports integrations with the following IdPs:

- [Okta](https://www.okta.com/)
- [Azure Active Directory (AD)](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/active-directory/)

This guide provides setup steps for integrating both of these identity providers on Astronomer.

Once you complete the integration for your organization,
- Astronomer will be listed in your IdP's set of supported applications.
- Your IdP will be listed as an authentication method in the log in page of the Astronomer UI.
- Workspace Admins can invite a user to a Workspace directly without that user having to separately sign up for an account first.
- Users will automatically be authenticated to Astronomer if they're already logged in to your IDP.
```

@jwitz FYI I think the right acronym is `IdP` not `IDP`. That's what Okta uses: https://help.okta.com/en/prod/Content/Topics/Security/Identity_Providers.htm

> ## Configure Okta as Your IDP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure Okta as Your Identity Provider
```

> This section provides setup steps for setting up Okta as your IDP on Astronomer Cloud. After completing this setup, your organization's users can use Okta to log in to Astronomer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section provides setup steps for setting up Okta as your IDP on Astronomer Cloud. After completing this setup, all users in your organization can use Okta to log in to Astronomer.
```

Reviewer 2: @chomipi88 Is this dependent on users having the same email base domain that's set for the organization? Should we mention something about that here?

Reviewer: I think this is actually related to the last step here, which is to add users to Astronomer via the IdP. As long as they're added to the app, their email will be registered and they can be invited to any Workspace regardless of their base domain.

Author: @paolaperaza Yes the email domain configured for the organization should match the email domain the users are logging in with. Today only one domain is supported, but we are working on multi domain support.

### Prerequisites

> To integrate Okta as your IDP for Astronomer Cloud, you must have an [Okta account](https://www.okta.com/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To integrate Okta as your IDP for Astronomer Cloud, you must have an [Okta account](https://www.okta.com/).
```

Any role required?

> ### Step 1: Work with Astronomer to configure SAML

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Reach out to Astronomer
```

> Reach out to [Astronomer Support](support.astronomer.io) with a request to integrate Okta as an IDP on Astronomer. From here, an Astronomer Representative will provide you with an SSO URL and an Audience URI. Save these values for Step 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reach out to [Astronomer Support](https://support.astronomer.io) with a request to integrate Okta as an IdP on Astronomer. From here, an Astronomer Representative will provide you with two things:

- A Single Sign-On (SSO) URL
- An Audience URI

Save these values for Step 2.
```

### Step 2: Configure Okta

> 1. Follow the [Okta documentation](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/Content/Topics/Apps/Apps_App_Integration_Wizard_SAML.htm) to create an SAML App Integration with the following SAML settings:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Follow the [Okta documentation](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/Content/Topics/Apps/Apps_App_Integration_Wizard_SAML.htm) to create a SAML App Integration via Okta's Admin Console. Configure the following SAML settings:
```

>     - **Single sign on URL**: `<your-sso-url>`
>     - **Audience URI (SP Entity ID)**: `<your-audience-uri>`
>     - **Name ID format**: `Unspecified`
>     - **Application username**: `Email`
>     - **Update application username on**: `Create and update`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Single Sign-On URL**: `<your-sso-url>`
    - **Audience URI (SP Entity ID)**: `<your-audience-uri>`
    - **Name ID format**: `Unspecified`
    - **Application username**: `Email`
    - **Update application username on**: `Create and update`
```

Reviewer 2: Any guidance on what this email can be?

Reviewer: I think this is a setting, not a specific email. It's saying that the default username for the application is the user's email.

Reviewer 2: Oh word

2. In the **Advanced Settings** section of your configuration, set the following values:

    - **Response**: `Signed`
    - **Assertion Signature**: `Signed`
    - **Signature Algorithm**: `RSA-SHA256`
    - **Digest Algorithm**: `SHA256`
    - **Assertion Encryption**: `Unencrypted`

3. In the **Attribute Statements** section of your configuration, create the following four attribute statements, making sure to use the exact capitalization as shown:

    | Name      | Name Format | Value            |
    | --------- | ----------- | ---------------- |
    | email     | Unspecified | user.email       |
    | firstName | Unspecified | user.firstName   |
    | lastName  | Unspecified | user.lastName    |
    | name      | Unspecified | user.displayName |

  :::info

  These values might be different if Okta is connected to an Active Directory. In this case, replace each `Value` with the equivalent Active Directory values for a user's first name, last name, and full email address.

  :::

4. Complete the remainder of the setup as documented in Okta until you finish creating your integration.

### Step 3: Provide Astronomer with your integration information

> On the page for your Okta app integration, click **View Setup Instructions**. Copy the values for `Single Sign-on URL` and `X.509 Certificate` that appear and send them to Astronomer Support. From here, Astronomer will finalize the integration with Okta.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the page for your Okta app integration, click **View Setup Instructions**. Copy the values for `Single Sign-on URL` and `X.509 Certificate` that appear and send them to Astronomer Support.

From here, Astronomer will finalize your organization's integration with Okta.
```

### Step 4: Assign users to your Okta application

> On the page for your Okta app integration, open the **Assignments** tab. Ensure that all users who will use Astronomer are assigned to the integration. For more information, read [Okta Documentation](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/Content/Topics/users-groups-profiles/usgp-assign-apps.htm).

Reviewer 2: Should we morph this into a short "Test Integration" step, sort of like Databricks does it here? https://docs.databricks.com/administration-guide/users-groups/single-sign-on/okta.html#test-the-configuration

> ## Configure Azure AD as your IDP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure Azure AD as your Identity Provider
```

> This section provides setup steps for setting up Azure AD as your IDP on Astronomer Cloud. After completing this setup, your organization's users can use Azure AD to log in to Astronomer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section provides setup steps for setting up Azure AD as your IdP on Astronomer Cloud. After completing this setup, your organization's users can use Azure AD to log in to Astronomer.
```

### Prerequisites

To integrate Azure as your IDP for Astronomer you must have:

- An Azure subscription.
- An [Azure AD tenant](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-create-new-tenant) with `Global Administrator` privileges.

> ### Step 1: Register your app for Astronomer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Register Astronomer as an Application on Azure
```

- **Name** and **Supported account types**: Set these according to your organization's needs.
- **Redirect URI**: Select **Web** and specify `https://auth.astronomer.io/login/callback`.

### Step 2: Create a client secret

Follow [Microsoft' documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app#add-credentials) to create a client secret for your new application. Make note of the secret value for Step 4.

:::caution

If you configure an expiring secret, make sure to record the expiration date and renew the secret before this date to avoid interruptions to your service.

:::

### Step 3: Configure API permissions

Follow [Microsoft's documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-configure-app-access-web-apis#add-permissions-to-access-web-apis) to add the following **Delegated** permissions to **Microsoft Graph**:

- `OpenId.email`
- `OpenId.openid`
- `OpenId.profile`
- `User.Read`

:::info

> If your Azure Active Directory is configured to require admin approval on API permissions, you need additionally click the **Grant admin consent** button at the top of your permissions list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your Azure Active Directory is configured to require admin approval on API permissions, make sure to also click the **Grant admin consent** button at the top of your permissions list.
```

:::

> ### Step 4: Provide Astronomer with your Azure AD app information

Reviewer 2: Should we add a step 5 to test this? Or is there at least an equivalent to `Step 4: Assign users to your Okta application`?

Wouldn't be the worst thing to have a screenshot of "Okta" or "Azure AD" on the Astronomer login page?

Reviewer: @chomipi88 What is the behavior once an IdP is configured: Are users automatically directed to the configured IdP login after specifying their email, or do they go to the login page here and see their IdP listed next to Google/ GH?
![Screen Shot 2022-02-04 at 3 54 46 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/74574233/152560239-11703b0c-853a-4a94-84e5-10badb407113.png)

Author: @jwitz If their organization has multiple connection types, they would see another option under Continue with GitHub. If their organization is only configured with Okta or Azure AD, the user would never see that screen and be redirected to their IdP

> Reach out to Astronomer support and provide the following information from your Azure AD app:
> 
> - **Microsoft Azure AD Domain**: Retrieve this from your Azure AD directory's overview page in the Microsoft Azure portal.
> - **Application (client) ID**: Retrieve this from the **Overview** page of your application.
> - **Client secret**: Use the value of your client secret from Step 2.
> 
> From here, Astronomer will complete the integration and add Azure as your organization's IDP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reach out to [Astronomer Support](https://support.astronomer.io) and provide the following information from your Azure AD application:

- **Microsoft Azure AD Domain**: Retrieve this from your Azure AD directory's overview page in the Microsoft Azure portal.
- **Application (client) ID**: Retrieve this from the **Overview** page of your application.
- **Client secret**: Use the value of your client secret from Step 2.

From here, Astronomer will complete the integration and add Azure as your organization's IDP.
```

---

## Overview

This guide provides setup steps for integrating various third party identity providers (IdP) with Astronomer Cloud.

Identity Providers (IdPs) are services that manage user accounts. As organizations grow, it's common for teams to integrate internal tooling with a third-party IdP. This allows administrators to monitor application access, user permissions, and security policies from a single place. It also makes it easy for individual users to access the tools they need.

Astronomer Cloud supports integrations with the following IdPs:

- [Okta](https://www.okta.com/)
- [Azure Active Directory (AD)](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/active-directory/)

This guide provides setup steps for integrating both of these identity providers on Astronomer. Once you complete the integration for your organization:

- Astronomer will be listed in your IdP's set of supported applications.
- Workspace Admins can invite a user to a Workspace directly without that user having to separately sign up for an account first.
- Users will automatically be authenticated to Astronomer if they're already logged in to your IdP.

## Configure Okta as Your Identity Provider

> This section provides setup steps for setting up Okta as your IDP on Astronomer Cloud. After completing this setup, all users in your organization can use Okta to log in to Astronomer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section provides setup steps for setting up Okta as your IdP on Astronomer Cloud. After completing this setup, all users in your organization can use Okta to log in to Astronomer.
```

@jwitz Can you make sure we use `IdP` consistently over `IDP` and add to style guide: https://www.notion.so/astronomerio/Astronomer-Terms-and-Technical-Jargon-5d2389d462734e149d2e66a5cf606228

(We'll clean that up later but just so we don't forget)
